That is, it turns out from your idea that Russians, the inhabitants of today's Russia, are just a hodgepodge of different peoples where there are absolutely ve Yes, absolutely right, look Aha, yeah Yes, if you look, uh, Russia is made up of the territory of residence of Finno-Ugric tribes, Turkic tribes, Well, and various other yes yes yes well the main jamb is made up of Finno-Ugric and Turkic tribes Yes no Slavs have ever lived in the Moscow region So the Merya tribe and other Finno-Ugric tribes lived there there was no migration of Slavs from Kyiv there either yes in such huge numbers I did that time I forgot to ask you about one important thing then it came to my mind and I really really really wanted to write about this I even gave an analogy with Israel look at Israel being attacked by four countries there are four or five coalitions of Arab countries but Israel keeps Arabic as the second state language and later there in the nineteenth year there he gives the language as under a special  status Why Ukraine
some specific historical
moments Yes to pin some analogies
from others Yes we often say there
and why in Switzerland there are several
languages ​​Yes why not And why there And
why there Each country each in each
historical period has absolutely its own
unique uh position which does not
correspond to any other period
any other country take
Switzerland and Ukraine it was formed
differently Yes different Switzerland essentially
uh It is multiethnic in itself so
Ukraine was formed as the territory of the
Ukrainian nation under uh external
occupation yes Austro-Hungarian yes uh  there was an
occupation Russian occupation And so
on, that is, uh, our people, uh, for example,
were part of several empires Yes, the
empires fell apart, but for example, the
Austro-Hungarian Empire has no
claims, but Austria, if we
look at how Austria Yes, as a center,
has no claims to
its former colonies, it turns out  so Austria
lives and it's normal and therefore not a single
Ukrainian has anything to
ban there It's Austrian and so
on
E Hungarians yes here are Hungarians they have  there is
a bit of resentment because under
Trianon
they lost part of their territory They still
lay claim to part of the territory of
Ukraine Slovakia Serbia neighbors so
for Russia Yes we were in the
Austro-Hungarian Empire all this is
history Yes we were in the Russian Empire
yes This is history but Russia  uses
Russian language as an element of war m well yes
Why not knock down this trump card her in
her from her ru Once again once again no
look I explain why
Russia is doing replaces Ukrainian
identity with Russian identity Yes
they have nothing to do with
Kievan Rus Yes they  in the 10th or 10th century it
was fashionable to form myths that you are not
just a state there, in this
state there with a thousand-year history
Yes, they came up with the idea that
they came up with something like Rurik And so on
That's what they are there
Rus Although They had nothing to do with it
and  now the entire state imperial
policy of Russia is based on the fact that
Ukrainians do not exist the Ukrainian nation is a
made-up nation the Ukrainian language is
a made-up language it is there Opol and
some kind of Russian  the Austro-Hungarian headquarters
came up with and so on yes that is the Russian
language is like the Russian church ROC Yes
it is not a religious organization it is an
FSB war that is when we say for
example in Ukraine the
Catholic Church is active yes although
once for example Poland also owned
these  territories yes well
we have these churches functioning normally
yes
and absolutely normally
but why because Poland doesn't have there
are some forces there that
express some claims to Ukraine but they
are marginal yes that is there is no
such thing as a Polish world Yes
uh, in this Russia is promoting narratives
on the territory of Ukraine that no
Ukrainians exist, that we are all one
people, Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, the
Ukrainian language is invented and so on,
yes, that is, all this is an element of war,
after why is this important, yes, because
uh, if a person, like that,  there is
Propaganda and Propaganda It always
lies on some ground Yes For example,
if a person is, for example, a
Muslim Yes, Propaganda lies on him
which has a religious subtext Yes, there is
Muslim, there is Sharia  And so on and
so forth Yes, there is this Ramzan Kadyrov
Yes, he is speculating on the topic of
Islam and they are going, they are going to
die, if
a person goes to a Russian church, yes,
he prays
there is a priest In short, he has authority,
they have an icon there of Saint Barbara of Moscow
Nicholas II
is an emperor, he is almost Yes, he is
like God And so on Yes, and when,
uh, let's
say, troops come Yes, they come with what
they come with Nicholas II, they
come with these narratives, they
just lie down, one people Yes, that's how he
then he has these narratives we and the Russians are
one people And then there are some Americans Yes, the
Americans want to sort of set us against each other, that's
all That's why the Russian language, the Russian
church and the Russian culture, everything Yes, this is an
element of war if it weren't for that,
yes, for example, it's very easy to compare
Austro-Hungarian Empire part of Ukraine
belonged to it Yes Russian Empire
here the Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed
and Austria has no claims to
its former neither  to the Czech Republic not to
Slovakia at all to anyone they live
develop live richly yes Small
country Although there was an influential Empire all
Russia The fact is that Russia in my
opinion in 1917 That was just
the process of disintegration but it did not end
because Lenin reassembled the Empire
a little  in another form Yes, there in the form of the
Soviet Union, but in essence it was also an
Imperial project Yes, this Imperial
project expanded further during
Stalin's time, they captured even more territories
and in 1991, this Imperial
project came to its logical
conclusion, it fell apart because it was
historical  the period when the
Roman Empire was enlarged, it was also there, it
controlled half of the world at that time,
yes, Alexander the Great was going somewhere to
Babylon to conquer something there, yes, the
Persian Empire, there, King Darius, was
invading here in the early 19th century, that is, it
was a normal historical process, yes,
or take this Genghis Khan, look  on the
map where is Mongolia Yes and where are the eastern and
western possessions of the empire  Genghis Khan is not
me I understand but on the other hand I want to
come in and ask not now I just
won't finish and what now Yes the
process of the collapse of the empire has been going on for the last centuries the
British Empire just
abandoned all of its colonies almost
all of India and so on  Yes, they
live independently, yes, that is, the world is
being organized in a completely different way than
Britain, yes. In order to be rich, it is
not necessary to go somewhere overseas
and do it on your own territory, yes, that is,
technology, let's say, the scientific and technological
revolution,
yes, has made the world much richer, yes.  And if
we look at technology why some
countries are now rich and others here is a
country gas station Russia there is Gas
Oil Diamond and they live poorly because
now they just dig it up it
costs nothing active system Yes I understand tell
me here on the other hand human
life is  the highest
value, look at the concept of value, yes,
it is in every person, in every
society, and in different situations, it is absolutely
different, yes, because when they
start manipulating this, there is human,
look at human  life's highest
value Yes, and here the question arises Yes, you
must save, for example, one child
or another, you need to make a choice,
really Here you go on a boat Yes, like the
principle of a trolley, yes, that you save
someone alone Yes, there are no
abstract ones like that  here above we
need to consider a specific example
Here is an example on s bring Denmark and
Nazi Germany when they simply said to these
aggressive ambitions of Germany
Okay guys don't destroy
our infrastructure and like Come
Well and in 2022 this is by the way this
example the Ukrainian told Look I
get it let's go  early response early
response Look, this is a beautiful manipulation
because I immediately understood what it was all about. It would
be better if Ukraine surrendered. Yes, in order to
save lives. Well, that's understandable. Yes,
look, Ukraine has many
historical precedents when Ukraine
lost, uh, in 1900 after the creation of the
Ukrainian People's Republic.  The Republic lost to
the Bolsheviks And we ended up in the USSR We
remember the Holodomor Millions of people genocide
Yes, and so on and so forth, that is, from
that the nation lost its independence Yes,
it lost thousands of times more people
than during military actions, that is,
people who died during the war with
the Bolsheviks, yes, during the national
call-up, Yes, there are not so many of them, but
people who were then subjected to genocide Yes, that's
millions  Look for example Bucha Yes
Bucha the Russians went into Bucha what
happened Yeah, how many people they still can't
find and so on a very beautiful
example with the Jews in World War II
yes it
turns out the Jews Yes they
were a civilian population they couldn't at all there
as if they didn't have  it was its own army its own
yes that is like buildings Yes they
just fell under the power of the Gite what happened to them
when you
uh spend you lose control over your
life Yes then anything can happen the
example of Denmark here is not that Denmark was in
comparison with Nazi Germany
such a small country that it has,
like, well
[music]
technically Yes, there was no possibility of making
such resistance plus I understand
that many Danish Yes, politicians and so
on, the people, they
sympathized, well, there were moments when
there They sympathized and  Jews
were sympathized with there The Queen sympathized with
there Although they could openly
declare their political views but you
just understand That's the fuss they made
that's really very They
made a tragedy here they talk about the fact that
there was a war they embittered and other fifty
tenths but here there is another argument
that before  before the full-scale war
several million 4 million Ukrainians were
in Russia they came in and left they preserved
their identity they spoke their own
question Question how many let's say so how many
in Russia
yes imprisoned killed poisoned And
so on
Russians Well quite a lot Of course
quite a lot and now look if a
person is politically active  Yes, he is a
target, no one will touch a slave
because a slave is perceived as, say,
a single unit of production, yes, that is, you are
just a man, no one
touches you, Come on, work hard at the factory, raise
me, yes, If you only open your mouth and
say, Listen, why am I here?
I work at a diamond mine in Yakutia,
gas, gold, oil, diamonds, and we live
poor then opened your mouth yes that is you are
already a talking slave you are no longer there that's all
that's why to say that
uh let's say if Russia came everything would be
fine Yes this is just deceit
just deceit because Russia
destroys even its own population that
opens its mouth Yes against uh  let's say to the
official authorities that's all And what is it
doing on these Look how many, uh,
statistics, how many
people are still missing
in action in the occupied territories Yes, how many journalists have been killed,
how many, and so on, so
this is all empty talk, but what if
Well, with such, with such, as if, logic  Yes
then Ukraine needs to surrender then
Poland needs to surrender Well we will continue according to this scheme
look Well let's go like this we will
go you surrender so that there is no koro
human life is the highest value
Further and further Germany and so on Well it's funny
really Where where Yes where then we need to
stop say  no no dude come on
anyway human life is the highest
value but in my opinion you
us well Russia is capable of doing this of course You
just
know this from the outside probably from my logic
It looks like Russians and  Ukrainians are
in many ways They are the same people Yes
you Well in what in what are they the same
Well you know in character Yes and
statehood Well there is almost nothing
state Why look for example
uh for take for Muscovite and say
Tajiks and Uzbeks are different  something for a
Muscovite No, of course, nothing A Muscovite
will say It's no different Yes Ask a
Tajik or an Uzbek, you are different,
of course, Tajiks are a foreign-speaking people
Yes, these Uzbeks are
Turks culturally mentally They are the
same people In
essence, that's it ...
do Uzbeks or Tajiks do
it? For example, everything is absolutely the same,
starting from marriage, divorce, even
some national holidays
and so on, everything is the same,
just like with you, for example, almost
like with you, no matter what you look at, look at what
you are saying now. Yes  this is the influence of a
certain religious factor,
yes, that
is, customs and so on. Yes, they
were formed by the fact that they were under the influence of
some  states Yes, which to
impose Yes, because look,
Tajiks and Uzbeks have completely different
origins Yes, and Differently, Tajiks are an
Indo-European people, just like
Iranians and Persians And Uzbeks are a Turkic
people, they were formed on the Turks were
formed in Altai Yes, and that is,
Tajikistan and Uzbekistan -  this is a place of
contact of
cultures for so many years they have all
mixed up so much
that what is the point of looking so far
If Well is there any point in looking so
far as it has mixed up you have one language the
language is not one but I most of
Tajikistan know Uzbek very well yes
pra Why Because look if  you
take those who live on the border Yes
somewhere they know a cart take a person
from the Transcarpathian region of Ukraine They
most know Hungarian even if
they are not Hungarians Yes because they
traveled somewhere there They were born somewhere in villages also the
Czech Republic Slovakia uh if  I don't know what
it's called in linguistics. Yes, when
two languages ​​coexist side by side, then
people  they start Well, they are communicating
The point is that The point is that
when a person from Moscow looks at you
Yes You are all the same to them I won't
call you by the word Yes also when you,
like, look at a Ukrainian Russian
Yes through the context of the
history that you  studied the Soviet
Union essentially because even if you were
born after the Soviet Union, you
still had the legacy of Soviet historiography
yes, that it is one people and so
on the question is we and the Russians developed
in completely different states if you
look at it, uh, we and the Russians ended up in the same
state yes
350 years ago somewhere only yes that
is before that we were formed as a
people in completely different conditions completely in
different we are a European civilization
Russians are not European For example we
had we had ru we had the Grand
Duchy of Lithuanian-Russian Samogitian  the
Commonwealth our cities had
Magdeburg rights chose
a precedent for themselves when in 40 years having changed when
a generation changes and already in fact
a lot and the culture changes Yes and
a lot and the culture changes Yes andworldview changes and attitude towards life changes and statehood accordingly If you have lived with Russians for 350 years then it is not obvious that you have grown together with them very well and flesh no look again let's take it that the concept lived like yes there was one state for example the Russian Empire Yes, the Russian Empire is a multinational State, it is not a state of Russians, yes, that is, there were rules there at all. Who were the Germans who ruled there? Katerina was a German there. Peter was German. Yes, in fact, German and yours, yours, yours, the capital was also Scandinavians who came there and founded the foundation. No, uh, no. Look. this is the Norman theory, it's called, it's not known where from at all, uh, Kyiv existed, uh, according to this, uh, Tale of Bygone Years, in which it is written that Rurik came there, Rurik is a fictional character, and now you're talking about this Soviet historiography, which uh, came from the Russian one I had to somehow [ __ ] oh it hangs So it hangs Yes it developed yes yes Look, there is no Rurik
there was this mythical character if we open this Tale of Bygone Years this is a work of art there it begins that uh after the Great Flood the son of Ino went there and so on that is it is more of a fairy tale and it was written 300 years after the events Yes who say Kyiv yes Kiev did not found any neither Rurik nor anything Yes, in the 9th century Kiev had already existed for a long time Kyiv had existed for a long time that's all That's why Russian historiography Yes, it wants everything Prima Kiev plus Novgorod has nothing to do with the Russians The Muscovite kingdom captured Novgorod only in my opinion in the ve and the cutout of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief its population that's it so it's all too early That Russia captured Tajikistan And your ancient cities would have declared their own because well now It's true in our country that's how it is about culture take a Ukrainian village and a Russian village that's what culture shows because what was there in the cities under the Soviet Union Yes, everyone and traditions and the Russian village and traditions In general, absolutely different, damn, about the village, about the village That's exactly what I don't know, I don't see the difference, though now I'll show you the difference  look at any Ukrainian Yes,
tell me what this is, this is an embroidered shirt embroidered
shirts Yes, every person in the
Ukrainian Yes village yes in the Ukrainian forest
has embroidered shirts what do the Russians have I
ask the Russians Where is your national
clothing Where is your
national footwear Where are your
national dishes where  elements of your
culture so look By the way, if
you are Tajik yes So look It looks like
Pamirs
And yes By the way, they have there yes very very
similarities yes yes so Pamirs Yes
they are also an Indo-European people and by the
way I once showed it to subscribers Yes
embroidered shirts  peace very similar Here is a
photo I want to show This is who And
this is you
This is roughly similar and ask any
Russian yes And what is your national
dress Well they have harem pants and they only have
SBO Russians don't have any harem pants There are no Russians
Ru not harem pants this is  Ukrainian So
we also call trousers that are
very wide sharavars, like Russians
don't have sharavars, Russians don't have sharavars, it's just
not like that. How did Russian people dress back then?
That's it.
question Look how you look for the sake of interest look at the photographs there from the end of the nineteenth century Yes There were already a bunch of photographs Yes of Ukrainian villages and Russian villages Ukrainians embroidered shirts Yes there are there caftans kipta there are pants leather shoes leather shoes rudki some kind of vest Yes without ornaments without anything just a bag Russians that's what they look like like men in some kind of bags Yes torn that's all that is it turns out from your idea that Russia here the inhabitants of today's Russia are just a hodgepodge of different peoples where is AT Aha aha Yes if you look at it Russia eh is made up of the territory of residence of the Finno-Ugric tribes of the Turkic tribes Well and there are various others yes that is well the main backbone is made up of the Finno-Ugric and Turkic tribes Yes no Slavs have ever lived in the territory of the Moscow region So lived there the tribe of Mer and other Finno-Ugric tribes no the migration of Slavs from Kyiv there also did not
there were such huge numbers What happened to the tribes that lived there they adopted the Slavic language The thing is that when Rus was baptized Yes essentially the Greeks and Bulgarians Yes they baptized Rus and brought here the letter riches yes records of sacred texts yes that is the Bible essentially Yeah E what did they do letters as such Yes, on the territory of the modern Moscow region, these Finno-Moscow tribes did not have yes, uh, a prince came there from Kiev yes, that's how the governor is sent from Moscow to collect tribute Here is his task to collect tribute uh, naturally uh, there were attempts to baptize all those tribes that were there since Kyiv was baptized Novgorod was baptized Slavs and so you can see others Yes there were revolts against baptism yes on these Finno-Ugric lands that's why uh letter letter Church Slavonic and why Russian Russian language is Closer not even to Ukrainian but to Old Bulgarian language - this is old Bulgarian [music] now there is Russia Yes it was formed there, for example, take the Buryats, the Buryat which
now he goes to school he already speaks Russian in 2 centuries Yes, he will not conditionally remember his Buryat Yes, you will see that he is Buryat but he will call himself Russian he has Russian language That's the same thing happened with Buryat it's just visible yes And if you take for example the Finno-Ugric or Mordvins you won't be able to tell them apart because of their facial type Yes but they also have the same Oslavic language There are many different examples like this in the world Yes when it comes And you generally view it as negative when these little ones peoples inside Russia they are there over the years there are Slavs zru sri I am not saying now Positive or negative I am saying that historically Yes this is the substrate of different peoples Yes here They had no relation to Rus' the only thing is that they were on the outskirts of Kievan Rus Yes and were subjects of Kievan that is the prince collected tribute from them, you know, like before, the prince was like a criminal authority who would come and give another prince a beating, and tax him those who were taxed by him, tax him, and then another would come, that is, these were  how are such criminal
groups in
modern times And how is this different from the
United States where there are also different
peoples and places the population was conquered and as
a result it turns out that everyone, everyone, everyone was translated
into English and everyone speaks
English and their national identity
most often people lose being by the way
Well, look  Yes, if we are talking about
the United States, yes, the
United States is very
supportive of national identity,
there are certain reservations, yes, on
which it has only recently begun,
no, it has begun a long time ago, yes, a long time ago, uh,
there are uh, how are they, even certain
economic preferences, yes, for
example, in some of these  casinos can
only be completed on these Indian
territories yes, that is, they
use it, as it were, but by and large Yes, the
colonization of Europeans in South and
North America has displaced the local
population very strongly, you first
cut everyone out and then okay, look there a little
differently  there were huge
crowds of this population coming from
Britain from Spain because uh in
Spain in Britain there was overpopulation And
here you could get land Yes
they gave you in
Oklahoma conditionally land and you are already beating off the Indians there Yes, that is, modern, these Americans are not Indians, English Yes, these are the British, there are Scots, Irish, Italians, Germans And so on Yes, who now speak English in Russia a little differently in Russia wasn't there, a bunch of people didn't flee from Kyiv to populate this territory, yes, all these tribes lived there and they stayed. That is, for example, in the Vologda region, yes, those people who lived there 500 years ago, 600 years ago, they just speak differently now. and that's it And now it turns out that in Russia there is simply one One tribe simply captured all the others around it expanded very seriously and imposed its no look look in Russia it was a little different in Russia it was not a tribe that captured Yes but the Moscow principality one prince prince and tribe - these are completely different things. For example, let's take the ruler of Russia, there were the Turks, yes, there were the Germans, yes. Yeah, that's it.  there is
just the one who controls this
territory that's all yeah uh it
turned out
that the Moscow principality Yes captured
Tver captured there Kazan captured
captured expanded that's all A Yeah
and as a result it uh scenario What is called
the enslavement of peoples and their uh destruction of
their self identity  it is essentially They say
that in the USA That here it was carried out one
by one according to the same patterns roughly speaking
no absolutely according to different absolutely according to
different in each look In each uh
country In each this is what we have already
started our conversation Yes, it is impossible one
example  uh compare with another Yes also
take for example Osman Ottomans Yes Turks
Ottomans when they came to the Byzantine
Empire yes here Istanbul it was
Constantinople yes yes yes yes yes and
all of Turkey it was the Anatolian
peninsula there is Asia Minor And so on
Yes now it is completely different  eh they
came differently eh yes that is, among different peoples in
different historical periods these
processes took place differently That is, for
example, eh the
Turks came and displaced another
state There was a state Yes there was a
population  And so on Yes, in North
America and in South America,
uh, the Europeans came as a more
technological civilization Yes, and in fact
they displaced Yes, somewhere they captured, somewhere they
exterminated, somewhere, let's say, they even enslaved Well,
in South America there were
parabolas, that is, and  it was a historical
process yes there was
one on the territory on the territory of Russia
in essence
there was also a process of capturing
colonization of their lands pumping out
these resources but most peoples Yes did
not have time to go through the process of dissolution and
it was finished off in the 10th century Why
did Lenin do so much  republics Yes,
because the Russian Empire simply
burst at the seams of national
states, uh, in my previous conversation
with you I recalled this concept of the
spring of nations Yes, at the end of the 10th century,
this is what happened in Europe, it’s called the spring of
nations, nations began to
feel like nations, that’s where
Austria was  Hungarian Empire there lived
some Czechs Slovaks Ukrainians And so
on Yes but the
national as if the formation of the nation
national Renaissance began and
national states began to appear in the
Russian Empire if  if it weren't for the Bolsheviks
seizing power after
the revolution and creating this
Soviet Union and
then all sorts of autonomies here in the
Caucasus in the same way and so on Dasha and now there were
national states like in Europe the
Soviet Union Lenin's contribution to preserving
it well, as if it were ambiguous  I just
mentioned Lenin, he is a very
interesting character, in your country his
monuments were torn down as murderers of peoples there,
yes, people who killed people there, plus he
brought in such an ideology that also
destroyed many people, and Prince Vladimir who
baptized, uh, he also With fire and sword
like this  the most killed a bunch of people and
forced them all to accept there and the religion of the
Jewish fairy tale So what's the difference between
killing yourself on the one hand and on the other I
explain look uh it means uh Lenin uh is
considered in Ukraine as an alien
element yes that is he was not the ruler of
Ukraine yes yes This  an example of colonization, that
is, this is a foreign history, that is, for
us Lenin is everything, but as for Hitler, you
understand, he is a foreign man from a foreign
country
who enslaved us that's all that is to evaluate uh the prince of Kyiv Yes we evaluate the historical character As ours also as Bohdan Khmelnitsky Yes Bohdan Khmelnitsky is our character our character Yes but uh you evaluate look you are now taking a person from the 20th century comparing a person from the X centuries So that this huge number of people put down as if Absolutely right Yes because uh in more than that if we take Bohdan Khmelnitsky so he also put down Ukrainians how many Yes and uh why Because in different historical periods there were different systems of relationships that now in The 21st century is considered wild, but in the 10th century it was normal. So look. And now you want to compare Lenin to the 20th century. But when we already had a completely different type of social relations and Prince Vladimir, but Prince Vladimir was our prince. And yes, somewhere. he was fair somewhere unfair And so on yes that is we can evaluate him As we say the figure what he did right Well he was our so ruler dapino ours Yes ours  Look, look, look, all the princes,
all the kings. Yes, they,
uh, held on to power, on a rigid power,
then society got to the point that they began to
dedicate the Constitution, parliamentarism, and so
on. Yes, in ancient times, a prince was essentially an
authoritarian ruler, he was an authoritarian
ruler, that's all. Absolutely right, but
in  In America, for example, there are
processes like this when, as you said,
now public relations are
a little different, there is a revaluation of values ​​and
so on, and they are tearing down
monuments to those who are involved in murders and the
slave trade and so on, but no, it’s
not quite like that there in America, some
leftist organizations
they raise these questions that there are also the
founding fathers to take away their
monuments and so on there are such
tendencies look American society is
also developing through, for example,
100 years Yes American society can
have some other views Yes I don't
really care That is, if they
they want to do it this way we evaluate the process of
decolonization for some reason we had a
period when Hitler ruled us he
captured the same territory for 4 years  yes it was does it
mean that we should keep the
monument to Hitler there the street there Hitler shra and
so far really no Because when
they say why are you touching le history Yes for
some reason all these someone says they
do it very selectively Yes so
Hitler is our history Take in Russia  yes
put a part of Russia was controlled by
Hitler put a monument to him this part
he built something there a road some
hospital And so on But that
is not a single nation that respects itself
puts up monuments they will not preserve the history
where there were invaders Lenin for
example there  also
all these all the period of the colony they
were also colonies there
It seems the Netherlands they kept everything they
said that like that exactly with your
expression that it is part of our history
Whatever it is we keep it and
leafing through it and move on without provoking
anyone and in the Ukrainian situation  I
understand that the neighboring state is an
absolutely inadequate country and here comes
May provocation of a wild beast plus or minus that's
how it looks, doesn't it? Look, I
honestly don't know how it is in Singapore. I
'll see in this one. Yes, but it seems to me  which is
doubtful Yes, what Singapore is so
praised for, they have
former governors there on their banknotes Danish
on banknotes or not I don't
know, I don't know, but now, just for the sake of
interest, I'll look at Singapore banknotes right now,
yes, the Singapore
dollar x is the same face on all of them
Yes
now Yes obviously not period True or
what who is this at all
they have a portrait of the first president of the country
Fas Bin Ishak all glorify the island
state yes yes that is no
you see They cut off the colonial past
Yes and form So it is not of course this is the
same this is a banknote with s  this is all
obvious and clear but here
Look, for example, let's say in Ukraine
If there,
here is a part of Ukraine, part of Ukraine, if you
look there, there is the Odessa region Yes,
somewhere there, for example, under the Roman
Empire, I think there or there, the
Byzantine Empire, it was there anyway Yes  well,
these, let's say, political entities have
long since sunk into oblivion and
have no modern claims to Ukraine Yes Lenin Yes Lenin is
like Bandera Yes  Bandera has long since died but
he became a symbol or like Che Guevara,
for example, Lenin for Russia is a symbol,
one of the pillars of this Russian
world, and they have it very interesting, they have
such schizophrenia, can
Tsarist Russia and Lenin exist
in one of these in their heads?  they can be
- to drag Lenin, yes, Stalin, Lenin
killed the Tsar,
but they, in short, they support any
Russian. He supports both Lenin
and the Tsar, and so on. Yes, they
perceive all this as different stages of the
Russian Empire. That's all, if only
look, if only  Russian Imperial
Project Died and Russia fell apart Yes,
Lenin became just some historical
figure and distant then it could
be now Lenin is a
weapon in more than that look at the
troops when they enter some
populated area Yes, they destroy monuments to
Taras Shevchenko who was just a poet
yes, they destroy all the Ukrainian memorial plaques
And so on, why do they
do this Well, they are vandals one way or another
No, no, this is not vandalism
targeted policy look at the
Soviet Union Yes, how the Russian Empire the
Soviet Union destroyed the Ukrainian
national intelligentsia yes look E
even on Google there are shot
blind kobzars here in Ukraine there was such a
tradition of kobzardom there were blind kobzars
they retell the Duma that is different
this was an element of national culture yes
they shot them gathered  they were all
shot Why take it as They banned
They banned the printing of books in Ukrainian They
banned the study of the Ukrainian language everything
is there
you just grew up in Tajikistan Yes, I
understand that and you received the story about Ukraine
as a fragment of Soviet history because
well in Tajikistan Well because the leaders
here are all these ruling in  basically a
social lift Yes, it only worked for the
Slavs, as a rule, how many Ukrainians also
occupied leadership positions most often in the
Soviet Union, who do you have there,
Andropov was also from Ukraine Yes, who
else was there, Brezhnev, only with Brezhnev, yes, that
is, that is, from ours  regions nobody is
occupied And look at those A and  The Soviet Union
was formed, how much was there Transcaucasia,
Ukraine
and yes That is, you are What is called We in
our view you are part of
this, what is called Slavic,
so once again Ukraine did not form
any Soviet Union, the Ukrainian
People's Republic was captured by
the Bolsheviks and in its place was
proclaimed  Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic Yes, we
perceive it as
an occupational one, that is, they put the
then Girkin Motorola at the head of
this Republic, this is this is the
same as if in the twenty-second year
Russia had captured you, put
Medvedchuk in place, and then Russia would have gone to
VKB, like  such Absolutely right Yes
absolutely Vera everything is fine It's just that here
we have Russian Russians Here is this
story with your Zakharchenko and so on they
pulled off first of all here they
happened there
and they removed there they elected a
democratic government there and they
created a hotbed of like that
this is what happened in VM in the year ninety-three
and they have this our current
president Rakhmon this is an analogue of your
this  Zakharchenko is the same kind of dense person
who brought him to power and
installed him and it worked, just
probably you also wanted to
do the same thing Russia, yes, Russia did it, tried to
do it in Ukraine, in Georgia, then
when it didn’t work out, they took Abkhazia,
tore it away from Georgia Yes, in Moldova  they made
Transnistria yes that is Russia when the
Soviet Union was falling apart yes
they made in all neighboring
states such centers of let's say somewhere
control and
somewhere centers of let's
say conflicts so that the country
could not
develop normally absolutely right we one way or
another made us very dependent  and the
president of the current Tajikistan, he is
Valentina Matveenko, recently
flew to Dushanbe, she
looked at the new parliament there, but this is
disgusting, this is a typical
communist, and this is a Kremlin protege, we
understand this and unfortunately we
can't get away from this. Yes, but you have  exit
but if you look a little into the future
try to model it somehow like this
in your opinion what the law
seems like here some
prospects of the end are emerging  this war of yours Yes,
look, I will recommend you a very
interesting book I don't have it now
it is in a slightly different location
I took it and bought it in Ukraine it is in
Ukrainian And so it is in
English Yanush Bugayski
instructions for the dismemberment of Russia
instructions for the races of
Russia it is simply
Darius  division of Russia Yes, a very good
analyst,
uh, the book of the twenty-second year just
came out in Ukraine, it was translated in 24th year,
uh, a very clear analysis of the problems of the
Russian Federation, social,
interethnic, interreligious scenarios,
What will happen to the Russian Federation and so
on Yes, as I see it, what is
happening now between Russia  and Ukraine is
one small stage of a big process Yes,
until the Russian Federation falls apart
into different states, that's how the
Soviet Union was Yes, the Soviet Union was
Where the tanks were standing in Berlin in Warsaw they
were climbing into Afghanistan And so on Yes, the
Soviet Union fell apart Yes, the point is not
that  there they replaced Stalin with this
Khrushchev Stalin is a tyrant everything is Khrushchev Empire
is Empire
uh forces the emperor Yes uh to do
expansion  otherwise he will be gobbled up in the middle and
other candidates for the emperor, under
Khrushchev yes they attacked others under
Brezhnev they attacked under everything that is, there was
no more Soviet Union Moscow
has lost its mobilization potential it
now does not take Tajiks Ukrainians Yes
throw bodies at Warsaw yes Or in
Afghanistan it has lost economically
lost that is, it has such a resource but
it is too early for the Armed Forces to have a large
human potential from different nations
Yes, it’s just that earlier, as it took Ukrainians,
Tajiks, Kazakhs, Tatars Yes, and threw them into
war, for example, in Afghanistan or
somewhere else where it wanted, there in the Czech Republic Yes, in  In
1988, they suppressed Czechoslovakia with tanks.
Yes, including those who served from
Ukraine. Yes, in the Soviet Army, now it’s the
same thing, but now it’s
throwing in Chechens, Tatars, Yakuts. And so
on. When Russia falls apart into
different states, yes, that is, its
size is  this core of Moscow Yes
will no longer have serious
mobilization potential and serious
resources, but then on these lands there will already be a
normal balance while this  it will be a
healthy thing. Now take Putin and
some conditional
living Navalny together.
Today he is a good democrat, tomorrow
either something hits him in the head or
he is removed by some Prigozhin and everything
starts according to Novo, that's why for now. Well,
there  there's not only Navalny there
was also another one very well known I
said conditionally Yes A and I understood everything yes
So it turns out that the Soviet Union was
it gradually gradually collapses That
is, it is shrinking shrinking and
Russia is also one of the processes of shrinking
this empire that was  Yeah Well
sometimes there is this feeling that the Russian
government is simply playing into the hands of
this process as if either they are
simply sacrificing the process and nothing can
look at it as well as the Soviet
government played into the hands of this process Yes the
thing is that look there is here  several
things first historical process yes it is
developing no matter what uh the
Soviet Union could not have been closed
because it was developing people somewhere there
read somewhere there heard that abroad there is
some Radio Liberty now there is the
Internet this has generally changed the processes in
world that happen yes Earlier  you
could have been told about the wild, decaying
West. Yes, now you can still
open it and see that, well, damn, something is
wrong, yes, something is wrong, and the
population mobility is completely different. Yes, people, uh, even
in the same Russia, they were there in other places.
countries somewhere saw yes that is all the
same it is not like in the Soviet Union
but there is uh let's say how the Empire fell Yes the
Soviet Union also did not
fall apart right away First it lost its uh
these satellites there they withdrew troops from
Germany Yes the Berlin Wall collapsed they
withdrew  from Eastern Europe all Yes, the
troops withdrew from Afghanistan
now the same thing Russia it lost
essentially Armenia so formally still
Armenia VDKB but already there everything is clear
Armenia has taken a course to disconnect from
Russia Yes, it lost Ukraine as a sphere of
its influence and is starting to crumble
here  this Kazakhstan is also already, as it were,
formally an SRO because as I understand it,
well, Kazakhstan, like Tajikistan, is
very dependent on
Russia, very, very dependent. And that's why it's
very difficult. Many of us there also
talk about Kazakhstan, there's serial import.
Yes.  we understand that
Uh, how were we until 2014? Our
economy was all so integrated into the
Russian one. What couldn't they just take from us
and cut it off like that, and the same Kazakhstan
has things that they do. Yes, there are
Kyrgyz banks there, too, from
Kyrgyzstan, they are joining the
American sanctions, no  they are already serving
yes that is this process is going on but
also like Europe it couldn't just
cut off Russian gas because it
was dependent on it yes so
the dependence of Kazakhstan Uzbekistan
Tajikistan on Russia is even
stronger it is even stronger therefore it is more
difficult for them to get out of there  Yes, but Russia is
leaving Yes, and Syria too Look, Syria is
fresh We were still talking, no one even
thought that this would happen in Syria Yes, everything
Russia has lost
Syria for 11 days and now the Empire is losing
its
geopolitical influence And then
the processes of, let's say, strengthening of internal ones begin,
just like with  the soviet union had
lost the external Yes the internal
Empire began either it expands or it will
collapse the same thing with the Roman was
how does that mean what awaits us in the near
future is inevitable  the collapse of Russia and
its wrong does not await us it
awaits us it is we who are waiting and something awaits us there we
must say so in the near
future we must form and help the
collapse of the Russian Federation to do
what is dependent on us to speed up
this process yes because this process
Can  stretch out for 20 years yes And can it
pass in 2 years yes that is, it's like for
example, uh, let's say there is a disease, it
can pass by itself yes yes it will pass yes And you
can take medicine Yes and speed up
this process help the body That's how and
here the thing is that as  be that as it
may Yes, what The longer these processes drag on,
the worse it is for all countries that
depend on Russia in some way
personally depends But at the same time they
have a choice one way or another, if you
imagine this
wonderful future  which
will come to us and Russia will fall apart and Ukraine will
return its territories and begin to
develop rapidly in that
case how to build relations with
those leaders of those Central Asian countries
or other CIS countries who,
despite the war, in one way or another
maintained economic ties with Russia
and actually helped it  overcome Yes,
very good question look
uh I  I always give such examples,
now the Czech Republic is helping Ukraine, yes,
Poland, and so on, and other countries in the
sixty-eighth year, yes, when there
was an anti-Soviet uprising in the Czech Republic, an
anti-communist uprising, the Soviet army
was thrown into Prague with tanks,
and it turns out that people who are
Ukrainians who served in the Soviet
Army  they there people Yes how do the Czechs
treat us now they remember the sixty
eighth year they remember how we say Yes we
think Yes that our people were part of the
occupation army we admit it yes
we don't say that Oh these are our heroes yes
like the ones who crushed the evil imperialists there
here in the
year P6 Our artillerymen yes Soviet yes
Yes we were part of the Soviet Union
shelled Budapest because there
was also an anti-Soviet uprising but
Budapest now it is now with this
Norman And yes and so look the Czech Republic
supports Ukraine supports yes
Why Because we are already completely  another
state formation is a completely
different vision and we understand that either we
stand together against an external enemy or
this enemy will take over  Ukraine and
again it will be like now Tata is
throwing Chechens at us and will
throw us at Chekhov and that's all.
Therefore, when Russia falls apart,
Ukrainians will have normal relations with the states that are
formed in the Caucasus,
with Tatarstan, there
will be normal relations with Bashkartastan.
Although now yes  The Imperial center takes the
Tatars Bashkor Caucasus and throws them to die in
Ukraine, just like For example, I will say
when Tsarist Russia captured Ukraine,
it took our people, the Caucasus, the war, that
is, the Imperial, as soon as we
lose them, they will be in their own states. Yes, we
will already be independent states with them.  build relationships yes in some
moments We were
in a state of war they were in the
state that fought with us and Yes
it will be it will be necessary to experience
rethink and that's all Here is an example of the Czech Republic yes
the Czech Republic is helping us now with weapons it
is helping not Well republics within the
Russian Federation Understandable  and what about the countries of
Central Asia, for example, which
have the same thing there, absolutely the same thing Yes,
look,
that same one  Tajikistan in 20 years will
not be the same Tajikistan that is
now conventionally So it will be a completely
different government, a completely different
Social relations, a completely different
balance of power in the region and that is the question of
whether we will be able to find what is common for
interaction, the challenges that will come
next That
is China  sa what look I'm not this not
sinology has enough of its own problems in the
Pacific region Yes so that he still
something there in Central Asia se China is not the
same Empire as Russia Empire Yes
look The thing is that when a foreigner
looks at a map for them in Russia they live
all Russians for them in China all
Chinese live Yes but in China there is Tibet there
is Sinn where there are a bunch of Turkic there are Uyghurs
Kazakhs and others yes That is China is an
Empire Yes China is an Empire means
according to the same scheme it turns out as
ours changes ours  the society of the planet
China will also undergo changes
and perhaps at some point will also
fall apart like Russia there into separate
some damn this is now look at the battle
now Why for example this si Yes he is
all  Taiwan is laughing there Taiwan Yes
because uh imperial logic yes uh
requires expansion imperial logic or the
Empire is expanding uh and by expanding by
capturing new lands it is mobile sees
its internal let's say political
class on let's say uh This is the capture and
development of new lands Yes if this does not
happen uh  in the Empire
political unrest begins and so begins the
internal political struggle pluralism and
so on and completely different processes and
in particular the Empire falls apart here the
Roman Empire was expanding super yes
stopped in its capabilities
because there already the Germans well let's
say ran into the sea here and so
on  Yes, everything has started completely different
processes The empire is expanding and expanding
then it reaches its management limit
because the
historical period has its
technological limitations once upon a time
horses only went there there to
get to that province you need to go there for 5
days conditionally Yes, now it's all
different  yes but still there are
certain as
they are technological some moments
therefore sooner or later yes the Empire
runs
into the limit  its extensions and
falls apart lovely lovely here
if what is called first of all of course
extremely grateful to you Andrey that
first of all you you there advertise us
talked I am interested with you go pomu
Thank you very much mutually and I will learn a lot
for me today
just I  I started reading another favorite book of mine
This one Yes and it's very interesting to expand the
horizon of my knowledge of this planet,
at least I have a little time left to live Yes, we don't
know what will happen next, but in
conclusion I wanted to ask you about something very important
because today I'm with my
friend  I spoke with Ukraine On this account
he lives in Europe And they talked about
medicine g to say in Europe in his
opinion medicine is a completely
insidious terrible disgusting story
But here in the post-Soviet
space the Soviet Union formed a
really cool system medical
system how much how do you rate it
his Look I'm not a medical specialist
so I won't say Yes but I have two
criteria first your friend is sitting in Europe
yes yes where there is bad medicine one and
second a very simple index you open
uh a list of average
life expectancy in countries Yes and you look at the question
Why in the Soviet Union and under the
Soviet Union is it simple with such excellent
medicine Yes people live much less
than in the bad medicine of Europe and the USA
maybe in Europe and the USA there is emergency
medicine Okay But if when you are there  there's
something wrong with you there People people in Europe
and the USA live longer Well, and their
welfare is better for us, that is,
yes, that is, there is a chance a chance to survive in Europe to
live longer somehow more than in
Russia and in Ukraine Yes, with ours  super
Soviet medicine I think that our
super medicine Yes, that's a myth,
that is For example, he describes
the situation: I'm sick, I come to this
hospital and fill out something there and I
have to wait there for an hour and a half until the
doctor comes to me, there's something  he'll examine you and it's not a
fact that he'll even come back after
an hour and a half or two stop stop you What
year were you born I was born in ninety-two
ninety-two That is, you
definitely didn't go to Soviet hospitals I
understand no Well stop I was born in eighty-
first
I don't remember  or Soviet
post-Soviet you come to the
registry you take a card you go or
you want to say that in Sovetsky you
came to the clinic or to the hospital you
Oh well done everything is so chu and pochi not some here an
hour and a half he
managed not just for example what in
Ukraine there or in Russia if you  got
sick called an ambulance when the
ambulance arrived yes they gave you an injection or
immediately hospitals question question When was the
last time you called an ambulance in Russia
I haven't been to Russia in Ukraine for a very long time
when did you call an ambulance in
Ukraine in
2021 in the twenty-first year And
what  the ambulance arrived, damn, my
neck seized up and I I also threw up Yes and
she arrived, gave me some kind of injection
and then looked Well, something's wrong here,
let's get hospitalized,
great, everything's fine, I lay there in
the hospital for 2 days and everything was discharged
normally Here  something like that but to
imagine such a thing in Europe where is there well
it's hard Of course if you get sick You don't need
anything  as they say and Brian for everything
because
profen how do people survive in Europe Well,
well, let's do it this way you ended up in the hospital in Europe
Once you had to Once you
had to Yes they gave you profen it was It was It
was Wait Stop they gave you
Ibuprofen No, they didn't even give me ibuprofen
of course you see  That is, look, that
is, the trick about ibuprofen, it turns out that
this is your personal
mm, this mm, coming from our
post-Soviet people of the CIS living In short, I
will say so, not a single CIS living in
the European Union Yes, because of European medicine, I did
not return back to the CIS, I don’t know
any
who  Damn he says Listen I'm
worried about the health of my children what
if the ambulance comes and in short it doesn't come
I'm packing the children I'm leaving in short to Gus-
Khrustalny Well we've already gotten used to
plus probably the fact that for all sorts of
trifles we call an ambulance and here it doesn't
come either Absolutely right Yes  and that it won't
come and it's very expensive Well,
another point is that in Europe medicine may be
focused on money, but here it's focused
on people, approximately  What expression is there?
Like this,
like there, yes, it's oriented there towards
money, one way or another, wait, stop, stop,
stop, stop, stop,
uh, as long as I remember Soviet medicine, Yes, they were
constantly talking about these,
in short, bribes, And so on, And so on,
Yes, as long as I remember, there are conversations now  I don't
know Maybe you have some
other post-Soviet medicine in Tajikistan Yes, how many
stories do I know Yes, it doesn't matter In short, you
need to pay doctors there and so on,
that's why he says that there it's
focused on money, but here it's focused on people, that
is, a person goes to work as a doctor
because  that he goes to work This is his
salary he goes for the money and not for the
fact that he is Doctor Aibolit And this is what Doctor
Komarovsky said They say this These are the words of
Doctor Komarovsky that is,
look before Look Doctor Komarovsky is
not a doctor he is a blogger first and
foremost yes Therefore look  Dr.
Komarovsky says what the
audience of mothers wants to hear
Yes, if I were Dr. Komarovsky Yes,
I would speak Like Dr. Komarovsky
because he speaks not from the point of view
That's how I think not from the point of view of a doctor
But from the point of view of  blogger medical Yes,
a lot of mothers watch him Yes, who are
his audience and he tells them what
In short, they want to hear from him
that's it
myths shab It was
really more
exciting permission to make a
Donation Where where where you say to do that's
where you have a Ukrainian Card there is so that
I have any card on ZS, here it is -
Damn, I don't know how to show you, so
go to Stream. Just a second, just a second,
just a second, I'll open a second browser now
[music]
uh, so so so so so so so so so
so there's a QR code for Monobank. Here it is  this is from
birna zsu this is a fund volunteers probably we have
right there and so And so you have the first
second but
yeah now now now now now now now
and here zbir on zsu
channel yes yes here it is a QR
code so the scanner pardon when requesting a QR code
tell me what And what are you processing it with
Privatbank And not not a bank Just
this is not processed by Privatbank and the camera is
so open in  Google Chrome yes
Oh so
[music]
and so so so so so so while you're
looking here Natalia wrote Yes medicine in
Ukraine is at least 100 years behind
Europe now I'm in Ireland
had to stay in the hospital for 8 days
cardiology not postponed everything is
free Damn  that's it, my
mother
lives in Stuttgart and she recently
ended up in the hospital, she also
praises it very, very, very much but I,
I, I am like this, that is, your mother
who saw Soviet medicine, yes,
yes, exactly, exactly
in Stuttgart  she liked it more Yes,
she I Well, I just have such a tendency I
think maybe mom she she loves there
maybe exaggerate a little there things are the
fifth tenth there I don't know she
praises there cleanliness beauty everything is so everything is so
polite and so on so
commas
tact so there is everything pam  to
you Huge
huge respect the whole bank is full thank you
so much we wish you victory so that you defeat
these these scoundrels and if a small
modest here  just an atomic share of help
that we can provide, we will provide it and we
will continue to pursue it and
say hello to your mother Tell her that she is a
very smart woman Thank you very much,
thank you very much Good luck, good luck Until we meet for the
third time, there
was definitely a great conversation we
have on the channel called the first conversation
conversation with a Tajik
Look Find a pretty interesting
video there too about an hour on
public Such interesting questions
like subscribe comment subscribe to my
Telegram right now axis VN and
pok this is very and very important YouTube is busy
with us through scarg Orcs in your ban and very
many videos I do not show  people are not
shown information about streams at times, so
that we Mali operational links
are written right now, and while there are
videos in telegrams, there is also interesting and
useful information, and we will inform you about the
latest operational links independently,
so that we can show you about this YouTube
Glory  Ukraine subscribe